# Classification-Of-Profane-and-Racist-Tweets-Using-Natural-Language-Processing

Most social media platforms grant users freedom of speech by allowing them to freely express their thoughts, beliefs, and opinions. Although this represents incredible and unique communication opportunities, it also presents important challenges. Indeed, some users misuse the medium to promote offensive and hateful language, which mars the experience of regular users, affects the business of online companies, and may even have severe real-life consequences. In this project we tried to detect racism and sexism through various tweets and evaluate them qualitatively and quantitatively, we decided to create a set of deep neural network-based classifiers. For this purpose, we used the most common dataset published for Tweet classification. The purpose of this model is to be able to identify tweets as racist, sexist or neither. 

Abusive comments also referred to as hate speech on social media websites have become a serious problem. A direct impact of this kind of speech has been on teenagers which has led to increase in the number of cases of suicides, depression etc. This issue can be resolved by identifying the users that promote hate speech on social media websites which are actively dealing with such racist/sexist comments. We have considered racist and sexist tweets to be hate speech and will be classifying the data based on these features. We have taken a training sample of tweets and labels, where label ‘1’ denotes the tweet is racist/sexist and label ‘0’ denotes the tweet is not racist/sexist, the objective of this project is to predict the labels on the given test dataset.
